>> Mike North: In this next section, we're
going to get our dev script working again.
If you remember, at the beginning of
the course we had this nice project
level script when package and
project were the same thing.
At the beginning of the course
we could run PNPM dev and
our back end would start up,
our front end would start up, and
importantly, any code that we touched
would trigger a rebuild of some sort.
So we could just keep the app running,
both the front end and the back end, and
then go and edit our code and we could
see the changes that we made take effect.
This is part of what's awesome
about being a web developer,
either on the front or the back end.
Often you get that fairly immediate
feedback loop that you don't quite get if
you have big meaty compile step
that can't be done incrementally.
Let's get started.
The first thing we're going
to need to do is go to our
UIS package JSON and this needs some work.
Really what we have to think about
here is in the context of our ui,
what does dev mean?
Because this is a UI scoped
package JSON at this point,
I would argue this is the real dev for
the ui.
Just spinning up Vite's
dev server mode and
we're gonna grab this as the starting
point for the dev script.
We will hoist up to
the top of the workspace,
open up our workspace package JSON and
we're gonna paste it and
it needs some alteration here.
We can get rid of this thing here.
Actually, let's call this dev Dev one for
now.
I want to show you why this is
not going to work if we run this.
Because remember, PNVM can run a command
in each package in the repo and
it can produce colorized output.
But here's what we get.
Packages, models.
It's running the DEV script and
PNPM showing this.
But PNPM run.
It's good for tasks that exit.
Right now what we're running into
is there are dependencies here.
As far as pnpm is concerned,
dev is some arbitrary thing and
it knows that models is the first
thing it should try this on because
it's the lowest level thing in
the dependency graph right there.
It has to happen first.
And so we're kind of stuck here.
And if I control C this, you're going
to see some evidence that, okay, great,
now it tries the server and
now it tries the ui.
So what you're seeing is, well, finally,
I exited this with a Control C.
And now it's starting up the other things,
so it's falling short here.
This is why I don't use dev for this.
I like to use.
This is a really nicely scoped npm
package, good at one thing and
that's just running multiple commands
concurrently, and it's called concurrently.
So we're going to modify this first.
We're going to have.
You've got this first set of things.
These are names of different tasks
that will be printed to the console.
It's a prefix.
So we could say server models, client.
These are colors that
are used to color code.
This is coming from the server,
this is coming from the client.
Remember, this is going to be
interleaved output from many different
things that are running.
So this is to stay sane and
to know which output is coming
from which of these tasks.
Color coding is pretty nice.
And then we have individual tasks that
will run the server and the client.
But we want to do it differently.
These are still leftover from the
beginning of the course where we had dev
server and Dev client.
But we can do this differently.
We're going to say PNPM filter.
This is a way to say this
should run on one package.
Important to get them in the right order.
Ordering matters.
Notice we've got three things.
Three things.
And now we need three things.
So we want server models, client.
So here we are going to have
server models and client.
This is definitely the point.
How many columns wide
are we at this point?
We're already at the point where
I'd say write a shell script.
We're gonna do that in a sec because,
good God, but let's see this work.
What's happening here?
Concurrently command not found.
We got to install it.
Let's try it again.
Nice.
Okay, I'm noticing some things.
Well, first,
models doesn't have a color code.
Pink might not be the right.
Might not be available.
There we go.
We've got servers, model and client.
So you see how important it is to
have that nice little prefix so
you can easily see what's happening.
But look, here's our backend.
Interesting.
No projects match the filters in that.
Did we call it client instead of ui?
Of course I did, because I was saying
the word client while I was typing.
There we go.
There's vite actually starting up.
So in the end, oops, interesting,
we'll figure that out.
But clearly the client's running.
Clearly the API is running.
Let me see if that's
a super easy thing to fix.
Well, raise condition or something.
Maybe that error popped up because
the client started first before the server
was up or something like that.
Anyway, here we are.
Here's real data coming through from
that data file that's being read.
All coming from the JSON.
So now we're back to.
Here's your server logs coming in.
If I go back to a svelte component
like the seed packet, interesting.
So first on the website, and
I'm just showing you that you could
do it either way, you can always.
Whenever you're expressing
filters like this,
you can refer to sort of
the unambiguous package name, or
you can refer to it by the folder
name in that packages folder.
So this should work similarly well.
Yep, there it goes.
Yeah, to me, this looks like it's.
At least from this standpoint,
it's working fine.
What's happening here?
Did I delete something that was
important from package JSON?
Is svelte, svelte's in here.
Restart language server.
That was it,
some stale language server state.
So sorry, the thing I was trying to prove
here was if we go back and we find,
I don't know, some interesting text
that's a lot of gradient stuff.
That's an icon.
Look, there's some text being shown here.
I hit save.
There we go.
I've ruined every seed
packet with some text.
Everything's like, so
this is happening immediately.
We know that the dev server
is working there on the ui.
We know it's working on the server because
I could go here and change the startup.
Sorry, that's an index ts.
You don't have to follow
along with me here.
Let's delete the word port because
we're showing a full domain here.
So going to scroll to the bottom so
we can all see it.
Save.
Look, we just bumped the server, so
changes happen instantaneously there.
The tricky bit is of course, models.
And if we went here and
said version and hit save,
you can see there's a file change
detection incremental compile.
That means that in the dist folder,
we're getting a nice new build.
Now we're back to this great
productive dev script.
I can touch any file.
Those changes take effect immediately.
I have a working client server set up,
despite it all being in a monorepo.
Now, the only downside here,
I'll be blunt, and
you can script your way out of this is
this is a place where you do have to
keep up to date with all of the different
packages that are in your repo.
But there are ways to get
around this with other tools.
If you really wanted to
use concurrently for this,
what I would do is I would just make
a script that lists the packages and
then builds the concurrently shell script,
which I told you I would do.
Now I'm going to do it because I
think it's a little crazy to have
something that that
complicated in an NPM script.
So I'm going to in the root of my project,
make a scripts folder,
make a shell script there.
Did I get that wrong other way?
And get these lined up real nice just so
we can see what's going on.
And I think we can get rid of
these escaping things too.
Continue, continue, continue.
So again, just like three commands
running at the same time, color-coded.
Chmod, if you're still
learning your UNIX commands,
we're just making this
an executable script.
One more thing we have to say PNPM DLX,
which if you're an NPM user,
this is PNPM's version of NPX.
Download Execute DLX and there we go,
that first little blurb you saw here.
This is the downloading on the fly,
even if you didn't have concurrently.
Now we can also just do pnpm dev and
it calls the script.
So now we have a working dev script.